<h1>LAN Chat & File Sharing Application</h1> LAN Chat & File Sharing Application is one of easiest way to chat with your friends & share files to each other through LAN (Local Area Network). No internet connection is needed.  The only thing which requires is server IP address and you will be able to connect to others members through LAN. It can help you to chat with your friends even you both do not have internet connection. As it is based on LAN. Local area network (LAN) which connect different client to each other and also client to main server. So I have used the same concept here, I am connecting two or more client to the server with each other and by providing the IP address we can talk with each other. On the other hand file sharing application is also implemented where a user can upload files on a server specified path. I have provided the path to the directory where the uploaded files are stored for the user who wants to access particular file. 
Two sockets are created at the client side and the server side. The client connects to the server through its IP address and port number. They must share the same port number for them to communicate. The client and the server both communicate through a stream of bytes written to the socket. Basically, the message sent by one client into a socket and passes it to another client on the receiving side. If it is group chatting, a central socket will be used to collect the message and then it will be broadcast to all clients that are active.  
